so you know figma but you want to know
how to design a website app game or any
other product UI design tools are easy
to learn and hard to master what helps
you master them is knowing what exactly
you need to do so let's learn UI and ux
design no just what you need to
get started fundamentals standard
procedures and helpful resources a
design starts with a main idea solution
to a problem or a use case for example I
really needed a web application to
collect element specific designs like
these so designers and Vel opers like
you and me can find inspiration got a
good idea let's go step by step step one
user flow the people you hope to use
your product probably have certain
expectations they're looking for some
info when to buy something or just use
the service you need to map out that
main Journey from the moment they land
on your side till that key objective is
achieved in this project for example
when users land on the site they should
immediately find the category and the
websites in it we call this a userflow
diagram step two wireframing from the
user flow diagram we'll try to create C
responding screens or pages each page or
screen is supposed to contribute to
reaching that key objective in a way if
users are supposed to shop for something
then there's a store Page product page
card payment page and success page you
can start drawing layouts for different
screens in the form of wireframes which
requires real hard thinking and Analysis
of user Behavior back in 1800s we used
pen and paper to draw wireframes but
thanks to technology nowadays we're
lucky enough to do them on tools like
balsamic Envision freehand or just fake
mot fake Jam like a normal person for
example in this project we want a simple
and a straight to the point design so
just one single screen we need some
navigation in the header and footer our
main goal is showing users designs in
different categories how could we
Implement that maybe a little drop- down
menu a filter H it has to be simpler and
more accessible like right in front of
everyone's eyes how about just a simple
sidebar with the categories like font
awesome for example that's a good
inspiration we also want to showcase
different designs a lot of them on this
remain side we have several sources of
inspiration for this that have proven to
work like dribble so we need our designs
in a little grid over here and this grid
should have a link to the source of the
design its name and just a simple image
preview what we just did was a brief
version of user experience or ux design
it can be extended and have you go
through other steps as well depending on
how complicated your project is step
three design system this marks the
beginning of our user interface or UI
design Journey where we deal with
visuals every design project is led by
guideline that specifies reusable
components as you can imagine this makes
everything consistent like colors fonts
buttons forms boxes cards icons and so
on it can be very big or very small like
the one we have here starting with
colors they should reflect your projects
industry value or brand identity meaning
logo product or brand colors for this
project I just know I want it to be in
dark mode with mostly neutral colors
like black white and gray and maybe one
primary Vivid color I'm not really sure
what I want yet so I'm using real-time
colors to simulate my color choices on a
real side making sure they're accessible
and look good but generally speaking you
want your colors to be as comprehensive
as possible for example background color
text color primary secondary accent and
semantic colors each of them can have
different variations too like Shades
gradients and transparent versions next
up we have fonts which directly impact
the readability of your content plus the
fonts can give off a certain Vibe look
at these fonts funky elegant serious
childish and oh God what is this again
I'm using realtime colors to test out
some fonts from Google fonts quickly
which lead me to two fonts space
grotesque and Ubuntu then I'm using
types scale to find a good ratio and
readable sizes for these fonts and make
a list of them on figma I'm using these
standard responsive sizes of 18 pixels
for body text 14 pixels for small text
and 32 pixels for the title for icons
there is a massive library of resources
and plugins on figma itself you can even
make them yourself like I did here there
are different types of icons like flat
skoric glyph duone 3D outlined and so on
other major parts are buttons inputs
cards and really whatever your project
needs for example for this project we
need buttons category inputs and website
cards the style I'm choosing is outlined
and transparent how do you choose a
style you ask well there are about five
uh 10 no no no wait wait yeah there's an
infinite number of styles actually
that's where you come in to design one
good news is that there are many
resources to get inspired like dribble
behance and even the site we're
designing right now step four the actual
designing now you have all the
ingredients and it's time to cook a
design let him cook keep these six basic
design principles in mind visual
hierarchy helps show the order of
importance among elements contrast helps
distinguish elements and make them
readable or accessible balance helps
moderate the spacing alignment or the
placement of different elements
consistency helps keep elements
harmonical and avoids user confusion
Simplicity keeps things clear and a
straightforward for users and for extra
interaction feedback keeps users engaged
and gives them some clear reaction for
their actions now designing is not just
assembling the elements you will need to
test iterate prototype and refine a lot
in the step nowadays we browse tens of
applications and websites on a daily
basis and already have some expectations
so you don't need to escape the matrix
or calculate the answer to life universe
and everything to come up with a design
that users are already accustomed to the
only remaining step is filling it up
with some text like ux copy or marketing
copy you either use some good old lauram
ipsum dollar sit and M conector adip
sync
AIT or hear me out writing some actual
content even if they're not going to be
used at all this helps with testing and
creates realistic expectations of
different sections before finalizing
them by now we're also done assembling
the design for this project but still
one step remains bonus step
illustrations and visuals if you need to
add graphics there are thousands of free
and paid resources that provide you with
them you can make them yourself too
which is much cooler luckily you don't
even need fancy software like Adobe
Illustrator or prre to make
illustrations you can literally just use
figma for most of styles or a spline for
3D designing for this project we didn't
really plan for any illustration because
it's supposed to be very minimal the
good news is that I've turned this
design into a live site and now you can
use it to get some Inspirations for
designing your own project elements you
can contribute to it too by adding your
favorite designs to it this is just the
beginning of a journey from here on you
can build upon your knowledge by
designing designing and more designing
and that's all for this video if you
liked it make sure you do your magic
down there and see you on the next one